Update Data Licensing (#254)
elixir-europe/rdm-toolkit: pages/your_problem/data_licence.md

* Choose a licence that ensures your data is attributed to you correctly and makes the terms of re-using your data explicit to the user.

## Related topics
* [Sharing] (sharing)

## "What licence should I apply to my research data?"
 
### Description

This depends on what rights protect your research data. Which licence to choose might be governed by university policy or funders’ mandates. Research data can have varying degrees of publicity. There are circumstances in which data may be subject to restrictions eg. if datasets contain sensitive information. 

### Considerations

* If possible, choose and apply the least restrictive licence possible to ensure the widest possible re-use.
* Remember that if you publish your data in a data repository of your choice, a licence agreement will be applied to your data.
  * Repositories can be selected based on data licence and sharing policy by using [re3data.org] (https://www.re3data.org/)
* ELIXIR data resources ideally have terms of use or a licence that enables the reuse and remixing of data.

### Solutions

> * Apply a Creative Commons license to your data to ensure that your data can be shared and reused. 
>   * CC licences are conformant with the set forth in the [Open Definition](https://opendefinition.org/licenses/) and they are available in human-readable and machine-readable forms and they offer different levels of permission. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Apply to your data one of the [recommended licenses conformant to the Open Definition](https://opendefinition.org/licenses/), so that your data can be shared and reused.
  * The [Open Definition](https://opendefinition.org/) sets out principles that define the meaning of "open" in relation to data and content.
  * [Creative Commons licenses](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/) are the best known open data licenses and are available in human-readable and machine-readable forms, with different levels of permissions.
```

Author: Thanks for the comments & changes - much appreciated!

search: exclude
---

## "Why should I assign a licence to my research data?"
 
### Description 
Licensing is an important aspect of meeting the R (reusable) principle in FAIR data management. As part of the publication process, you need to decide under which license the data is released. A license is like a greeting to any person wishing to access, cite and use your data telling what they are allowed to do with the data.

### Considerations
* Remember that a licence is needed also if you use someone else’s data, that is protected by copyright or related rights.

> * If no license is granted, re-use is not permitted without the consent of the copyright holder.

Reviewer: This is not always true, since not all data is subject to copyright, see e.g. the "Is data always subject to copyright?" paragraph on https://www.openaire.eu/research-data-how-to-license/

```suggestion
* If no license is granted, re-use is generally not permitted without the consent of the copyright holder.
```

Author: Yes agreed! Thank for the addition.
